2024-06-15 01:29

Status : #baby 

Tags : [[2. Cell Architectonics]] [[quantitative biology, systems biology]] [[quantitative biology, systems biology]] [[simulations and modelling]] [[properties of material]]


>[!SUMMARY]- Table of Contents
```table-of-contents
style: nestedOrderedList
```

# Mechanics of the Cell

## Introduction

`Physical forces and mechanical properties are fundamental to structural calculations. The cytoskeleton and motor proteins are well-known sources of these physical forces within the cell. Additionally, the cytoskeleton determines the cell's mechanical properties. While biophysics has advanced our understanding of the mechanical properties and force production of cellular materials in vitro, accurately measuring these aspects in vivo remains challenging. Consequently, structural calculations, or quantitative modeling, often involve a trade-off between accuracy and simplicity. Currently we gather indirect evidences to understand cell mechanics, this is generally a interdiscipinary approach including biophysics and cell biology`

`Cell architecture is dynamic, with the positions and configurations of components constantly changing.`

## Methods for Applying Forces to Cellular Materials 

1.  **AFM (Atomic Force Microscopy)** is generally used to scan the surfaces at an atomic level. It can also used to measure the repulsive forces generated when the tip of the cantilever probe is pushed into the surface with an arbitrary force. 
2. **Laser Irradiation** is used to generate localised heat at focused positions, where the cell structures are destroyed at a specific location. Studying the movements of objects after irradiation, can enable us to estimate the tension before the irradiation. 
3. **By confining cells within microstructures**, the structure walls exert force on the cells. For cells that do not attach to a substrate, such as those in an embryo, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) resin molds are used. In contrast, for substrate-attaching cells like HeLa cells, their shape can be controlled by printing the molecules they interact with into specific shapes.

## Mechanical Properties of Structures inside the cells 

`Even if we succeed in quantifying the forces generated inside the cell, the information obtained is not sufficient.`

Depending on the mechanical properties of the object, external forces will have distinct effects on the object. An elastic object might deform without any displacement, on the other hand, a rigid object will displace without any deformation due to external forces. Determining the mechanical properties of objects in vivo is complicated, thus it usually involves collecting and combining indirect information.


`To simplify the complicated environment inside the cell to obtain a rough model connecting cell biology and physics, I propose classifying the mechanical elements in the cell according to the characteristics of their shape`

- One dimensional structures include cytoskeleton and chromosomes.
- Two dimensional structures include plasma membrane and nuclear membranes
- Three dimensional structures include cytoplasm and nucleoplasm

This includes theories of elastic rods or polymers for one-dimensional structures, surface theory for two-dimensional structures, and fluid dynamics for three-dimensional structures.

## Relationship Between Intracellular Deformation and Force: Elasticity, Viscosity, and Viscoelasticity

`If a force is applied to a straight cytoskeleton causing it to bend, the cytoskeleton attempts to return to its straight state. To bend further, more force must be applied. When strain and stress are in proportion, this object is said to have elasticity, which is generally a property of solid objects. In another case, the object may not return to its original shape, even if the force is released. This is seen for liquids, as they do not return to their original position after being moved by a force; this property is called viscosity.`

`Objects inside the cell can also be **viscoelastic**, depending of the time scale and magnitude of force applied. For example, the mitotic spindle is a piece of intracellular machinery that segregates sister chromosomes into daughter cells upon mitosis. When it is deformed by applying an external force, mitotic spindles behave like an elastic or viscous body according to the speed and duration of the force` 

## Stress - Strain relationship for Elastic materials 

Objects generally maintain their original shape and generate a resistance force when subjected to external forces. Stress is the force applied per unit area, and strain is the deformation that occurs as a result. Strain can manifest in five forms: tension, torsion, compression, shear, and bending. To estimate the force based on the observed deformation, it is necessary to understand the stress–strain relationship, which describes how much force is required to deform a material to a certain extent. Stress and strain are often linearly proportional within the elastic limit of the material, as described by Hooke's Law. The bending of one-dimensional microtubules or two-dimensional cell membranes can be modeled based on the assumption that the restoring force is proportional to the bending distance.
Buckling occurs when the compression along the axis/ plane of the structure exceeds a exceeds a critical value known as the **critical buckling load** or **critical buckling stress**.

Measuring the relationship between stress and strain in vivo is challenging. Therefore, in vitro systems, such as the Xenopus cell-free extract, are used to characterize this relationship outside the cell. The data obtained in vitro are then used to estimate the force based on the deformation observed in vivo.
In addition to deformation by extrinsic forces, biological materials actively deform themselves via polymerization and depolymerization. Such active deformation can produce forces. For instance, the elongation and shortening of microtubules can push or pull components attached to their ends.

The theories of elastic materials can explain the spatial patterning observed in organisms. One example is an elegant study on the retinal pattern formation of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster


## Rheology

Rheology is the study of the flow and deformation of matter, particularly focusing on the behavior of complex materials such as liquids, soft solids, and biological materials under various stress and strain conditions. Rheology examines how these materials respond to applied forces and how their mechanical properties change over time.

To analyze a fluid, passive rheology involves observing the passive movement of a probe floating in the fluid to infer its properties. In cells, this can be done by injecting artificial beads or using the cell's own structures as probes. In contrast, active rheology uses probes that are actively moved to measure the fluid's response. Examples include polystyrene beads moved with optical tweezers or magnetic beads manipulated with magnetic tweezers.


## Reynolds Number 

